JB (Ella I Baff) writes: JBRon Roth recommends: "Once you have your hypoglycemia CONFIRMED through the JBproper channels, you might consider the following:" JB[diet omitted] JB1) Ronwhat do YOU consider to be "proper channels"this sounds suspiciously I'm glad it caught your eye. That's the purpose of this forum to educate those, eager to learn, about the facts of life. That phrase is used to bridle the frenzy of all the would-be respondents, who otherwise would feel being left out as the proper authorities to be consulted on that topic. In short, it means absolutely nothing. JBlike a blood chemistryglucose tolerance and the likesuddenly chemistry JBexists? You know perfectly well that this person can be saved needless trouble JBand expense with simple muscle testing and hair analysis to diagnoseno JB"CONFIRM" any aberrant physiologybut then againmaybe that's what you mean" Muscle testing and hair analysis, eh? So what other fascinating space-age medical techniques do you use? Do you sit under a pyramid over night as well to shrink your brain back to normal after a mind- expanding day at your 'Save the Earth' clinic? JB2) Were you able to understand Dick King's post that "90% of diseases is not thy JBevaluate the statistic you cited from the New England Journal of Medicine. Coul? Once I figure out what *you* are trying to say, I'll still have to wrestle with the possibility of you conceivably not being able to understand my answer to your question?! JB3) Ronhave you ever thought about why you never post in misc.health.alterna- JBtiveand insist instead upon insinuating your untrained, non-medical, often JBdelusional notions of health and disease into this forum? I suspect from your JBapparent anger toward MDs and heteropathic medicine that there may be an You little psychoanalytical rascal you! Got me all figured out, ja? JBunderlying 'father problem'of course I can CONFIRM this by surrogate muscle JBtesting one of my patients while they ponder my theory to see if one of their JBpreviously weak 'indicator' muscles strengthensor do you have reservations JBabout my unique methods of diagnosis? [] JBJohn Badanes, DC, CA JB Oh man, when are you going to start teaching all this stuff? I'll bet everyone on this net must be absolutely dying to learn more about going beyond spinal adjustments and head straight for the mind for some Freudian subluxation. --Ron-- RoseReader 2.00 P003228: In the next world, you're on your own. RoseMail 2.10 : Usenet: Rose Media - Hamilton (416) 575-5363